DOCS: How to use processors (#2171)
Unity-Technologies/InputSystem: Packages/com.unity.inputsystem/Documentation~/UsingProcessors.md

---
uid: input-system-processors
---
# Processors

An Input Processor takes a value and returns a processed result for it. The received value and result value must be of the same type. For example, you can use a [clamp](#clamp) Processor to clamp values from a control to a certain range.

> >__Note__: To convert received input values into different types, refer to [composite Bindings](ActionBindings.md#composite-bindings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> To convert received input values into different types, refer to [composite Bindings](ActionBindings.md#composite-bindings).
```
See the note format for DocFx: https://dotnet.github.io/docfx/docs/markdown.html?tabs=linux%2Cdotnet#alerts

## Using Processors

> You can install Processors on [bindings](ActionBindings.md), [actions](Actions.md) or on [controls](Controls.md). See [How to apply Processors](HowToApplyProcessors.md) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Processors on [bindings](ActionBindings.md), [actions](Actions.md) or on [controls](Controls.md). Refer to [How to apply Processors](HowToApplyProcessors.md) to learn more.
```

        var stick = value.Get<Vector2>();
        var direction = stick.x;
        transform.Rotate(Vector3.up, direction);
        // To move the boat forwards, this code block uses the Y value of the stick
        var speed = stick.y;
        transform.Translate(new Vector3(0,0,speed),Space.Self);
    }
}
```

### Normalize

The [Normalize Processors](ProcessorTypes.md#normalize) normalizes the magnitude of the input vector so that it always has a length of 1. This extracts the direction of the input while removing additional information that may not be needed.
In the case of float input values, the values are normalized between a defined minimum, zero, and maximum.
Normalized input is particularly useful in scenarios where the specific magnitude of an input might distort the consistency of an intended action.

#### Example: A steady running player

To ensure the player always moves at a constant speed where the input simply triggers the action and controls the direction, the Normalize Processor is a suitable choice. This is achieved by retrieving the input vector while ignoring its magnitude and focusing solely on its direction.

> ![This picture shows a player moving forward while the On-Screen control stick was moved up slightly](./Images/Processors-Normalize-Slow.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A player moves forward while the on-screen control stick is slightly pushed up.](./Images/Processors-Normalize-Slow.png)
```

> ![This picture shows a player moving forward while the On-Screen control stick was moved all the way up](./Images/Processors-Normalize-Fast.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A player moves forward while the on-screen control stick is moved all the way up](./Images/Processors-Normalize-Fast.png)
```

In the images shown above, the player moves forward at a constant speed, regardless of how far the joystick is pushed upward.

To apply the Processor, add it to the Binding, as shown in the image below.

> ![This picture shows the setup of a Normalize Vector 2 Processor in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-NormalizeAsset.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Normalize Vector 2 Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-NormalizeAsset.png)
```

> Note: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to move the player.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to move the player.
```

Author: addressed in [801884f](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/801884fe5504379f8ebdcb82be4ba8ea750f036e)

### Scale

The [Scale Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#scale) multiplies the input value by a given factor X. This applies to float values as well as vectors, where each axis is multiplied by the corresponding factor specified for that axis.
This allows you to assign weight to input values, which can, for example, make a particular type of control easier to use.

#### Example: Horizontally aligned Camera

To make the look-around movement smoother and improve ease of use, it may be helpful to reduce the vertical rotation and scale the input values for horizontal rotation. For in-game landscapes that are primarily horizontally aligned, this is a useful feature to prevent the camera from rotating vertically too quickly or in unintended ways.
To apply this effect to all bindings, the Processor is applied to the Action itself (Look in this scenario). The following image shows the setup using the Starter Assets example:

> ![This picture shows the setup of a Scale Vector 2 Processor in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Scale Vector 2 Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look.png)
```

There are two Bindings attached to the Action. The input value ranges of the two bindings are very different. To mitigate this difference, it helps to use a Scale Processor on each of the Bindings. See how the Scale Processor normalizes the input data values for a joystick and a pointer (e.g., a mouse) in the images below.

> ![This picture shows the setup of a Scale Vector 2 Processor in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look-Pointer.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Scale Vector 2 Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look-Pointer.png)
```

> ![This picture shows the setup of a Scale Vector 2 Processor in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look-Stick.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Scale Vector 2 Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look-Stick.png)
```

> Note: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to rotate the camera.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to rotate the camera.
```

Author: addressed in [801884f](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/801884fe5504379f8ebdcb82be4ba8ea750f036e)

#### Example: Custom mouse sensitivity

You can use a Scale processor to adjust mouse sensitivity through a game settings menu. To support custom X and Y speed settings, apply the processor to a Binding limited to a Pointer device.

### Deadzone

To filter noise from controls that are rarely in a default state, constantly send input values, or seldom report the maximum value, a [Deadzone Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#axis-deadzone) might be the right choice.
The specified minimum value can filter out small movements or noise from the control, while the maximum value can mitigate the difference between the control's maximum value and the reported maximum values.

#### Example: Accessibility enhancement

The Deadzone Processor can be used to improve accessibility for physically challenging input gestures, such as very small movements on an input device. This can be made configurable through a game menu, for example. To filter out input events from tiny movements on a joystick (e.g., for trembling hands), here’s how the right stick binding of a gamepad can be modified to ignore input events for small input values:

> ![This picture shows the setup of a Stick Deadzone Processor in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Deadzone-Editor.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Stick Deadzone Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Deadzone-Editor.png)
```

The default minimum value is overridden to allow a higher threshold for minimum input values. For the maximum value, the default is used to standardize the values across all gamepads (since not all gamepads may ever send the maximum value).

> Note: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to rotate the camera.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to rotate the camera.
```

Author: addressed in [801884f](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/801884fe5504379f8ebdcb82be4ba8ea750f036e)

### Clamp

The [Clamp Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#clamp) clamps the input value to a specified range. The minimum value of the Processor defines the lowest input value that will be accepted, while the value cannot exceed the given maximum value. In combination with the Scale Processor, it is easy to standardize the input value ranges of different devices and place them within a well-defined value spectrum.

#### Example: Racing game speend control

In a case where the player is not supposed to fall below a certain base speed, but also cannot exceed a certain maximum speed, the Clamp Processor is the one you may want to use.
In the following image, you can see how a Clamp Processor can be used to restrict input values within a defined minimum and maximum range.

> ![This picture shows the setup of a Clamp Processor in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Clamp-Editor.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Clamp Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Clamp-Editor.png)
```

> Note that the Bindings can contain input values with very different ranges. In that case, a Scale Processor on the Bindings can help preprocess the values before clamping them (Processors on Actions are applied after Processors on Bindings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> The Bindings can contain input values with very different ranges. In that case, a Scale Processor on the Bindings can help preprocess the values before clamping them (Processors on Actions are applied after Processors on Bindings).
```

Author: addressed in [58d212b](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/58d212bb64fb696bae725b2a47b4f187f8817cc9)

---
uid: input-system-processors
---
# Processors

An Input Processor takes a value and returns a processed result for it. The received value and result value must be of the same type. For example, you can use a [clamp](#clamp) Processor to clamp values from a control to a certain range.

> [!NOTE]
> To convert received input values into different types, refer to [composite Bindings](ActionBindings.md#composite-bindings).

## Using Processors

You can install Processors on [bindings](ActionBindings.md), [actions](Actions.md) or on [controls](Controls.md). Refer to [How to apply Processors](HowToApplyProcessors.md) to learn more.

> Each Processor is [registered](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSystem.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSystem_RegisterProcessor__1_System_String_) using a unique name. To replace an existing Processor, register your own Processor under an existing name.

Reviewer 2: Nit-pick: too many processor words 😅 
```suggestion
Each Processor is [registered](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSystem.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSystem_RegisterProcessor__1_System_String_) using a unique name. To replace an existing one, register your own under an existing name.
```

Processors can have parameters which can be booleans, integers, or floating-point numbers. When created in data such as [bindings](./ActionBindings.md), processors are described as strings that look like function calls:

```CSharp
    // This references the processor registered as "scale" and sets its "factor"
    // parameter (a floating-point value) to a value of 2.5.

    "scale(factor=2.5)"

    // Multiple processors can be chained together. They are processed
    // from left to right.
    //
    // Example: First invert the value, then normalize [0..10] values to [0..1].

    "invert,normalize(min=0,max=10)"

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```CSharp
    // This references the processor registered as "scale" and sets its "factor"
    // parameter (a floating-point value) to a value of 2.5.
    "scale(factor=2.5)"

    // Multiple processors can be chained together. They are processed
    // from left to right.
    // Example: First invert the value, then normalize [0..10] values to [0..1].
    "invert,normalize(min=0,max=10)"
```
```

> ## Choose the right Processor

Reviewer 2: Great section 👏

#### Example: Ship navigation

To use an axis control to mimic a ship's rudder, inverting the input produces the desired effect. Pulling left steers the ship right, and vice versa.

![This picture shows a ship in a neutral position](./Images/Processors-Ship-Neutral.png)
![This picture shows a ship rotated to the left while the On-Screen control stick was moved to the right](./Images/Processors-Ship-Left.png)
![This picture shows a ship rotated to the right while the On-Screen control stick was moved to the left](./Images/Processors-Ship-Right.png)

You can achieve this by using an Invert Processor on the Action or the Binding. In this scenario, the Processor is applied to the Binding. Note that inversion is enabled for the X axis but not for the Y axis. Inverting the Y axis would cause the ship to move backward when the joystick is pulled upward. The following image shows the setup in the Action Asset Editor.

![This picture shows the setup of a Invert Vector 2 Processor in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Invert-Editor.png)

Finally, attach the following script to a GameObject with a PlayerInput component that references the corresponding Action Asset:

> ```c#

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```csharp
```

![A player moves forward while the on-screen control stick is moved all the way up](./Images/Processors-Normalize-Fast.png)

In the images shown above, the player moves forward at a constant speed, regardless of how far the joystick is pushed upward.

To apply the Processor, add it to the Binding, as shown in the image below.

![An example of a Normalize Vector 2 Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-NormalizeAsset.png)

>__Note__: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to move the player.

### Scale

The [Scale Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#scale) multiplies the input value by a given factor X. This applies to float values as well as vectors, where each axis is multiplied by the corresponding factor specified for that axis.
This allows you to assign weight to input values, which can, for example, make a particular type of control easier to use.

> #### Example: Horizontally aligned Camera

Reviewer 2: I don't think it makes sense to add now but I feel it can be mentioned. This example would be a great shout out to another package users might not be aware of, such as Cinemachine!

![An example of a Stick Deadzone Processor setup in the Input Action Asset Editor](./Images/Processors-Deadzone-Editor.png)

The default minimum value is overridden to allow a higher threshold for minimum input values. For the maximum value, the default is used to standardize the values across all gamepads (since not all gamepads may ever send the maximum value).

>__Note__: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to rotate the camera.

### Clamp

The [Clamp Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#clamp) clamps the input value to a specified range. The minimum value of the Processor defines the lowest input value that will be accepted, while the value cannot exceed the given maximum value. In combination with the Scale Processor, it is easy to standardize the input value ranges of different devices and place them within a well-defined value spectrum.

> #### Example: Racing game speend control

Reviewer 3: Typo: "speed"

Author: fixed in [6614285](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/661428561709af7d0ec3f74aa71f1daecfde4674)

> In a case where the player is not supposed to fall below a certain base speed, but also cannot exceed a certain maximum speed, the Clamp Processor is the one you may want to use.

Reviewer 3: Generally, IMO this to be game-logic and not input logic, but its fine as-is to show as example.

---
uid: input-system-processors
---
# Processors

An Input Processor takes a value and returns a processed result for it. The received value and result value must be of the same type. For example, you can use a [clamp](#clamp) Processor to clamp values from a control to a certain range.

> >__Note__: To convert received input values into different types, see [composite Bindings](ActionBindings.md#composite-bindings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>__Note__: To convert received input values into different types, refer to [composite Bindings](ActionBindings.md#composite-bindings).
```

> * [Using Processors](#using-processors)

Reviewer: I suggest removing this manually added mini TOC because the doc build system will automatically generate a TOC based on the section headings within a page, see an example here https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.14/manual/ProjectWideActions.html

Author: done in [72361ec](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/72361ec7b790443a98ab0b80a33c9e3606dca5df)

    * [Normalize](#normalize)
    * [Scale](#scale)
    * [Deadzone](#deadzone)
    * [Clamp](#clamp)

## Using Processors

You can install Processors on [bindings](ActionBindings.md), [actions](Actions.md) or on [controls](Controls.md). See [How to apply Processors](HowToApplyProcessors.md) to learn more.

Each Processor is [registered](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSystem.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSystem_RegisterProcessor__1_System_String_) using a unique name. To replace an existing Processor, register your own Processor under an existing name.

Processors can have parameters which can be booleans, integers, or floating-point numbers. When created in data such as [bindings](./ActionBindings.md), processors are described as strings that look like function calls:

```CSharp
    // This references the processor registered as "scale" and sets its "factor"
    // parameter (a floating-point value) to a value of 2.5.

    "scale(factor=2.5)"

    // Multiple processors can be chained together. They are processed
    // from left to right.
    //
    // Example: First invert the value, then normalize [0..10] values to [0..1].

    "invert,normalize(min=0,max=10)"
```

> ## When to use which Processor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Choose the right Processor
```

The following sections contain a brief explanation and various example scenarios for the different Processor types. Note that there are additional cases where Processors may apply; the scenarios described here illustrate only some of them. In some situations, it might be useful to combine multiple Processors to achieve a specific goal.

> If you don’t find a scenario similar to your use case, please refer to the [Processor Types](ProcessorTypes.md) section. You can also find more information on how to write your own custom Processors there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Processor Types] (ProcessorTypes.md) for a comprehensive list and information on how to write your own custom Processors.
```

### Invert

The [Invert Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#invert) inverts input values of any type (e.g. float, Vector2, or Vector3) by multiplying them by -1. This results in effects such as reversing player navigation, for example, the left arrow would be interpreted as a right arrow, and vice versa.

> #### Ship navigation scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Ship navigation
```

> To use an axis control to mimic a ship's rudder, inverting the input will produce the desired effect. Pulling the stick to the left will steer the ship to the right, while pulling it to the right will steer the ship to the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use an axis control to mimic a ship's rudder, inverting the input produces the desired effect. Pulling left steers the ship right, and vice versa.
```

![image alt text](./Images/Processors-Ship-Neutral.png)
![image alt text](./Images/Processors-Ship-Left.png)
![image alt text](./Images/Processors-Ship-Right.png)

This can be achieved by using an Invert Processor on the Action or the Binding. In this scenario, the Processor is applied to the Binding. Note that inversion is enabled for the X axis but not for the Y axis. Inverting the Y axis would cause the ship to move backward when the joystick is pulled upward. The following image shows the setup in the Action Asset Editor.

![image alt text](./Images/Processors-Invert-Editor.png)

> Finally, the following code can be used in a script attached to a GameObject that has a PlayerInput component referencing the corresponding Action Asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, attach the following script to a GameObject with a PlayerInput component that references the corresponding Action Asset:
```

```c#
using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.InputSystem;

public class Boat : MonoBehaviour
{
    void OnMove(InputValue value)
    {
        // The X value will be used to rotate the boat
        var stick = value.Get<Vector2>();
        var direction = stick.x;
        transform.Rotate(Vector3.up, direction);
        // To move the boat forwards, this code block uses the Y value of the stick
        var speed = stick.y;
        transform.Translate(new Vector3(0,0,speed),Space.Self);
    }
}
```

### Normalize

The [Normalize Processors](ProcessorTypes.md#normalize) normalizes the magnitude of the input vector so that it always has a length of 1. This extracts the direction of the input while removing additional information that may not be needed.
In the case of float input values, the values are normalized between a defined minimum, zero, and maximum.
Normalized input is particularly useful in scenarios where the specific magnitude of an input might distort the consistency of an intended action.

> #### A steady running player

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: A steady running player
```

To ensure the player always moves at a constant speed where the input simply triggers the action and controls the direction, the Normalize Processor is a suitable choice. This is achieved by retrieving the input vector while ignoring its magnitude and focusing solely on its direction.

![image alt text](./Images/Processors-Normalize-Slow.png)
![image alt text](./Images/Processors-Normalize-Fast.png)

In the images shown above, the player moves forward at a constant speed, regardless of how far the joystick is pushed upward.

> To apply the Processor, it can be added to the Binding, as shown in the image below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply the Processor, add it to the Binding, as shown in the image below.
```

> ![This should be a picture of the Asset editor](./Images/Processors-NormalizeAsset.png)

Reviewer: What does the alt text mean? Is this a placeholder text before the image was added? Please revise it to reflect what the image shows.

Author: updated in [8f5bf2c](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/8f5bf2cd55b5a2f55ab9fd05905b78c274c9b9a5)

Note: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to move the player.

### Scale

The [Scale Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#scale) multiplies the input value by a given factor X. This applies to float values as well as vectors, where each axis is multiplied by the corresponding factor specified for that axis.
This allows you to assign weight to input values, which can, for example, make a particular type of control easier to use.

> #### Horizontally aligned Camera

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Horizontally aligned Camera
```

To apply this effect to all bindings, the Processor is applied to the Action itself (Look in this scenario). The following image shows the setup using the Starter Assets example:

![Here should be a picture of the Input Action Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look.png)

There are two Bindings attached to the Action. The input value ranges of the two bindings are very different. To mitigate this difference, it helps to use a Scale Processor on each of the Bindings. See how the Scale Processor normalizes the input data values for a joystick and a pointer (e.g., a mouse) in the images below.

![Here should be a picture of the Input Action Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look-Pointer.png)
![Here should be a picture of the Input Action Editor](./Images/Processors-Scale-Look-Stick.png)

Note: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to rotate the camera.

> #### Customizing mouse input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Custom mouse sensitivity
```

> Another example of when Scale Processors can be very useful is customizing input via a game settings window. To allow a custom setup for the speed of the mouse in the X and Y directions, a Scale Processor can be applied to a Binding that is limited to a Pointer device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a Scale processor to adjust mouse sensitivity through a game settings menu. To support custom X and Y speed settings, apply the processor to a Binding limited to a Pointer device.
```

### Deadzone

To filter noise from controls that are rarely in a default state, constantly send input values, or seldom report the maximum value, a [Deadzone Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#axis-deadzone) might be the right choice.
The specified minimum value can filter out small movements or noise from the control, while the maximum value can mitigate the difference between the control's maximum value and the reported maximum values.

> #### The Deadzone Processor for Accesibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Accessibility enhancement
```

![Here should be a picture of the Input Action Editor](./Images/Processors-Deadzone-Editor.png)

The default minimum value is overridden to allow a higher threshold for minimum input values. For the maximum value, the default is used to standardize the values across all gamepads (since not all gamepads may ever send the maximum value).

Note: This scenario uses the [Starter Assets](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/starter-assets-thirdperson-updates-in-new-charactercontroller-pa-196526?srsltid=AfmBOoqLWdW2pU5Wt2reGYdWVodc1e0ko3cBKtfMQuPSgVqmL7yVA3dB), and the included PlayerScript is utilized to rotate the camera.

### Clamp

The [Clamp Processor](ProcessorTypes.md#clamp) clamps the input value to a specified range. The minimum value of the Processor defines the lowest input value that will be accepted, while the value cannot exceed the given maximum value. In combination with the Scale Processor, it is easy to standardize the input value ranges of different devices and place them within a well-defined value spectrum.

> #### Racing car

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Racing game speend control
```

In a case where the player is not supposed to fall below a certain base speed, but also cannot exceed a certain maximum speed, the Clamp Processor is the one you may want to use.
In the following image, you can see how a Clamp Processor can be used to restrict input values within a defined minimum and maximum range.

> ![Here should be a picture of the Input Action Editor](./Images/Processors-Clamp-Editor.png)

Reviewer: Need to revise the alt text!

Author: updated in [834e2c4](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/InputSystem/pull/2171/commits/834e2c447e47ce97736cab7cb38ca37500c682cf)

> Note that the Bindings can contain input values with very different ranges. In that case, a Scale Processor on the Bindings can help preprocess the values before clamping them (Processors on Actions are applied after Processors on Bindings).

Reviewer 2: > In that case, a Scale Processor on the Bindings can help preprocess the values before clamping them (Processors on Actions are applied after Processors on Bindings).

I think it would be good to have an example or expand an existing one to show examples of order of execution of processors. Always better to have an example than saying it in words IMO.

Author: Do you have a specific example in mind?

Author: Postponed for later addition
